docs/reports/iteration_31_4_handoff.md, before:

# Iteration 31.4 - Final PR & Merge Preparation

## Summary
In this final phase before merge, we synced the branch with `origin/main` and executed all verification gates. An explicit PR detailing the structured output schema migrations (mapping -> array) and typing changes was created. 

## Quality Gates
- **ruff format --check .**: `PASS` (82 files checked)
- **ruff check .**: `PASS` (All checks passed)
- **pytest -q**: `PASS` (146 passed in 3.87s)
- **./scripts/release/run_preflight.sh**: `PASS`
- **./scripts/release/run_go_live_check.sh**: `GO` (OpenAI + Google + Mistral OCR passed locally on live smoke & playwright ui tests)

## Artifacts
- **Pull Request:** [https://github.com/sergeionlyart/backend_Kaucja/pull/2](https://github.com/sergeionlyart/backend_Kaucja/pull/2) (Base: `main`, Head: `codex/iteration-31-techspec-lock-and-txt-pdf`)
- **Commit Hash HEAD:** `be5c5cf43be13a866ec4f8213c1701e976c70a47` (Gate execution verified against parent code commit `707ee6e`, `be5c5cf` is documentation-only)
- **Preflight Run Path:** `artifacts/release_preflight/20260227T220453Z`
- **Go-Live Run Path:** `artifacts/go_live/1772229922`

## Final Git Status
```
On branch codex/iteration-31-techspec-lock-and-txt-pdf
Your branch is up to date with 'origin/codex/iteration-31-techspec-lock-and-txt-pdf'.

nothing to commit, working tree clean
```

Commit message:

docs: explicitly define gate and docs-only HEAD commits

docs/reports/iteration_31_4_handoff.md, after:

# Iteration 31.4 - Final PR & Merge Preparation

## Summary
In this final phase before merge, we synced the branch with `origin/main` and executed all verification gates. An explicit PR detailing the structured output schema migrations (mapping -> array) and typing changes was created. 

## Quality Gates
- **ruff format --check .**: `PASS` (82 files checked)
- **ruff check .**: `PASS` (All checks passed)
- **pytest -q**: `PASS` (146 passed in 3.87s)
- **./scripts/release/run_preflight.sh**: `PASS`
- **./scripts/release/run_go_live_check.sh**: `GO` (OpenAI + Google + Mistral OCR passed locally on live smoke & playwright ui tests)

## Artifacts
- **Pull Request:** [https://github.com/sergeionlyart/backend_Kaucja/pull/2](https://github.com/sergeionlyart/backend_Kaucja/pull/2) (Base: `main`, Head: `codex/iteration-31-techspec-lock-and-txt-pdf`)
- **Git HEAD Commits:** 
  - `current HEAD` = `c89a0c30adc11c0b79136e45f51b8c9634eb3909` (docs-only update)
  - `gate code commit` = `707ee6eb1b264a14707f76722b654de9ec6730db` (the commit on which tests actually ran and passed)
- **Preflight Run Path:** `artifacts/release_preflight/20260227T220453Z`
- **Go-Live Run Path:** `artifacts/go_live/1772229922`

## Final Git Status
```
On branch codex/iteration-31-techspec-lock-and-txt-pdf
Your branch is up to date with 'origin/codex/iteration-31-techspec-lock-and-txt-pdf'.

nothing to commit, working tree clean
```
